
We have enjoyed putting our traditional library skills to use in the day to day activities of the research team as we became familiar with their research process and the research domain.  Having followed the work leading to the team's current manuscript, we are now fulfilling  our primary role on this team: figuring out how to archive the various research products to make them easily accessible to future researchers.  With a major paper ready to be submitted in a couple of weeks, we are finalizing a plan for this.

This plan tackles research data sharing as mandated by the NIH and also following the PI’s interest in sharing as much as possible within relevant research communities such as Alzheimer's Disease, genomics, psychometrics, etc.   This will include deposit of relevant material to NIAGADS and LD-HUB, as well as archiving the final manuscript in our institutional repository along with supplemental materials and additional research products that underlie the manuscript but are broader in scope.  Examples of these research products include summary statistics, p-value tables, white paper methods, code, and SNP annotations.  

Our recommended plan incorporates the FAIR principles of data sharing (Findable, Accessible, Interoperable, and Reusable).   Deposits to the institutional repository will be open to the public and each deposit will be assigned a DOI.  Multiple deposits to other data repositories will include these DOIs pointing back to the documents of record in the institutional repository.  The deposits will also be entered into major data registry sites or made available to these sites for harvesting.  As much as possible, generic data formats will be used for wider interoperability.  Supporting documentation including methods, software, and code will be provided for re-use.
